hey this is presto Walker reminding you
to mind your decisions a square has a
triangle inside of it with lengths of 4
3 & 5 what is the value of x the length
of the square side I've adapted this
problem from one I saw online pause the
video if you'd like to give it a try and
when you're ready keep watching to learn
how to solve this problem
[Music]
so how can we solve for X the length of
the square side first notice that the
triangle has lengths of three four and
five and that means it's a right
triangle the angle between the sides of
three and four will be a right angle and
measures 90 degrees now let's focus on
these two triangles we're going to show
that this triangle is similar to this
triangle how can we do that we're going
to show that they have exactly the same
angles to get started let's label this
angle as a degrees here we have a right
angle because we have a square therefore
the remaining angle in this square will
be 90 degrees minus a now let's
calculate this angle here we need it to
be 180 degrees minus the other two
angles along this straight line so this
angle will be 180 degrees minus the 90
degrees for the right angle minus the
other angle which is 90 degrees minus a
when we simplify this we just get a
degrees now we have a right angle here
in this corner of the square so the
final angle in this triangle will be 90
degrees minus a we can see that
corresponding angles of these two
triangles are equal and therefore these
two triangles are similar but how does
that help us solve the problem
well let's label the shorter side of
this triangle as Y since the entire side
of the square is equal to X this
distance will be X minus y now we use
the property that these two triangles
are similar therefore the ratio of their
long leg to their hypotenuse will be
equal so X minus y all over 3 must be
equal to x over 4 we'll solve this
equation for y well first cross multiply
then we'll distribute then we'll
simplify we get X is equal to 4
Y which means Y is equal to x over 4
well substitute that in to our diagram
here we can now solve for X because we
have a right triangle and we're going to
use the distance formula x squared plus
the quantity x over 4 squared is equal
to 4 squared
this means 17 over 16 x squared is equal
to 16 and for positive x we have a value
that x is equal to 16 all over the
square root of 17 and that's the answer
it's a fun little geometry problem and I
hope you enjoyed it too thanks for
making mind your decisions one of the
best channels on YouTube thanks for
watching and thanks for your support
[Music]
you